# ITK-dev docker setup

This repository contains the custom images used by ITK-dev to support docker in
development and production. It also contains tools to make docker usage easier
in development.

## Docker install

Recommend to that you install [Docker Desktop for
Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/) and create account at
[https://hub.docker.com/](https://hub.docker.com/) the account can be link to
"itkdev" organisation allow you to push new images.

## Optimisations

There are some simple tricks that makes docker perform better on Mac's. Open the
docker preferences in the via the dock icon.

* File Sharing (Only set path where you have your source code)
* Disk (Ensure the file has type `raw`)
* Advanced (CPU's, Memory)

From version 2.x this tool supports the usage of NFS mounted name-volumes, which
gives faster file synchronisation during composer install and cache clear etc.

It comes with a command `nfs:enable` that exports the Users directory through
NFS to localhost, so docker can map directories into the containers. It also
requires some changes to the docker-compose.yml files which have been updated
to support NFS.

If your project don't want to use NFS mounts you simply can remove the `nfsapp`
volume and change the mappings back to `./` in the docker-compose.yml files.

## Usage

### Requirement for all commands to work

You need to have some local packages installed via brew for all things to work.

Completions don't work with the bash completion that comes with macOS. So please
install a newer version:

```sh
brew install bash-completion
```

__Note__: You have to follow the instructions brew writes to get it working (use
`brew info bash-completion` to show the info).

The database sync will not work if you don't have a local mysql client installed:

```sh
brew install mysql-client
```

__Note__: You have to follow the instructions brew writes to get it working (use
`brew info mysql-client` to show the info).

If you use the [Dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) revers proxy required to
run DDF CMS unmodified you need to install dory. We only use dory for DPL/DDF shared
projects (multi supplier projects).
```sh
brew install dory
```

### Templates

The [`templates`](templates/) directory contains templates for adding
the itkdev `docker-compose` setup to new or exiting projects.

`rsync -avz templates/<TYPE>/ <PATH TO HTDOCS FOLDER>`

Also create an `.env` file beside the `docker-compose.yml` file that contains
`COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=<NAME>` to namespace the docker setup for the projekt.

### Docker commands

Start containers: `docker-compose up -d`

Stop containers: `docker-compose stop`

Stop and remove containers: `docker-compose down`

List containers in the project: `docker-compose ps`

Restart container: `docker-compose restart <CONTAINER NAME>`

### Helper scripts

The [`scripts/itkdev-docker-compose`](scripts/itkdev-docker-compose)
script makes it easier to run common commands in the docker
containers.

Add the `scripts` directory to your `PATH` environment variable to run
the script from your `docker-compose` project.

If you're using the `bash` shell, run

```sh
echo 'export PATH="'$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/scripts':$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
```

to add the script to your `PATH`. If you're running `zsh`, run

```sh
echo 'export PATH="'$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/scripts':$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

After updating your path, run `itkdev-docker-compose` in your project folder to
see what the script can do.

### Environment

The helper script uses an `.env` file in the root of the project for projekt
base configuration.

The `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME` is always required and the script will stop execution
if any of the need variables have not been set when needed.

#### Example .env file

```sh
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=ereolen
REMOTE_HOST=ereolen.dk
REMOTE_DB_DUMP_CMD='drush --root=/data/www/ereolen_dk/htdocs --uri=ereolen.dk sql-dump'
REMOTE_PATH='/data/www/ereolen_dk/htdocs/sites/default/files'
REMOTE_EXCLUDE=(ting styles advagg_*)
LOCAL_PATH='sites/default/files'
```

## SSL certification support

This setup comes with self-signed wildcard certificates for *.local.itkdev.dk, but other certificates can be generated by using this openssl command on Mac, just change the two places where the domain is written.

```sh
openssl req -x509 -sha256 -nodes -days 3650 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout docker.key -out docker.crt -subj "/CN=*.local.itkdev.dk" -reqexts SAN -extensions SAN -config <(cat /usr/local/etc/openssl/openssl.cnf <(printf '[SAN]\nsubjectAltName=DNS:*.local.itkdev.dk'))
```

To mac browser trust this certificate you need to open it with key-chain right click and select "Get info" and then open the "Trust" tab and select "Always trust".

The certificate is located in `./treafik/ssl/docker.crt` in this repository.

## Completions

### Bash

You can install completions for `bash` by running:

```sh
ln -s $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/completion/bash/itkdev-docker-compose-completion.bash $(brew --prefix)/etc/bash_completion.d/itkdev-docker-compose
```

### Zsh

You can install completions for `zsh` by updating `fpath` in `~/.zshrc`, e.g. by running:

```sh
echo "fpath=($(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/completion/zsh \$fpath) # itkdev-docker " >> ~/.zshrc
```

### Docker UI

If you want a graphical user interface to see what images and containers are
running in you local setup you can use "potainer".

`docker run -d -p 9080:9000 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock portainer/portainer`

Open you browser at [http://0.0.0.0:9080](http://0.0.0.0:9080) and follow the
on-screen instructions.

## ITK Images

At ITK-dev we have created docker images that matches our development.

The fuld list can be found at
[https://hub.docker.com/search?q=itkdev&type=image](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=itkdev&type=image).

### How to build

Please remember that changes to these images that are pushed to docker hub will
effect all development projects. So changes should be coordinated with the
development team.

```sh
docker build --tag=itkdev/php7.2-fpm .
docker push itkdev/php7.2-fpm
```

# !!!! Don't use iPhone hotspot. It wrecks everything, costs hours of debugging and ruins your day !!!!
